All right, so how do we feel about that?
Do we have any quick questions, or
slow questions, or moderate questions?
Question in the back?
>> After addition will
it still be balanced?
>> Say that, after addition?
After insertion?
After insertion will it still be balanced?
No, there's no guarantee that things
are gonna be balanced after insertion.
Insertion inherently unbalances a tree,
right?
That is where these rotation
algorithms come into play.
ADL versus red black,
.I don't know red black by heart,
obviously involves coloring like you
can't have two reds touching each other.
I forget the exact way
you do the balancing,
.but an AVL effectively defines
four things that you can see, and
it goes over each one of the possible
cases and how you rotate it.
So if you insert something,
you walk back up the tree.
If you run into a situation in which
you have a parent and a child, and
they're both on the left hand side,
then you can do a rotation in which
will make this a shorter tree.
And it does this recursively
back up the tree.
And that's an AVL algorithm,
it does that on insertion and
helps bring everything back up and closer.
And it actually causes
an extremely balanced tree.
It's like almost always
perfectly balanced.
It's a very impressive algorithm, but it
leads to more rotations, more rotations,
slower algorithm.
You have to be able to say, hey, if I
don't find that often but I insert a lot,
it's better to have red black, but
if I say find a lot and insert rarely,
perhaps AVL is a better choice.
So there's no one straight answer, again,
as always it's just this constant, well,
it depends.
All right, we have another question?
>> So basically,
it's possible to remove the same node but
while choosing a different strategy,
we can end up with a different tree.
>> Yeah, exactly.
So as I said,
the deletion I left it open to you,
I gave you two separate pathways to walk.
You find the largest on the small side or
the smallest on the large side, and
then you replace that parent node in which
you were removing or the removal node.
So that will fundamentally
lead to two separate trees.
Right, they gonna be different in shape So
in this case, if we were to do it over
here, say we didn't have this one,
we would have put 37 right here.
If we would have gone the other direction,
we would have put 100 right here.
And yes, the shape of the tree would have
been preserved in both cases, everything
would have been great, everything on
this side of 100 would have been larger,
everything on this side
would have been smaller.
If we would have put 37 there, everything
would have been larger cuz it's 100 on
the other side, everything would have been
smaller cuz it's 25 on the other side.
So both cases preserve
the shape of the tree,
they just lead to two different trees
>> Larger than and less than the value,
is that the only way you can make a tree?
>> Ooh, okay, yes so the question was this
whole larger than less than thing is this
the only way you can make a tree?
No, we're actually gonna be doing
a week ordered tree next, and
it's gonna be slightly different.
But for a binary search tree,
there is only really one configuration.
It's meant to mimic a binary
search of an array or
quicksort where we have this
strong ordering to things, right?
Meaning that if you were to look at this,
so check this out, so
don't mind all the crossing out.
Let's just print out the tree in order.
So in order remember, we go left,
print out the value, go right.
So we go left, go left, go left to 4,
go back up cuz there's no more children,
print out 7.
Go back up 15, go down, go left 25, right?
Go that little extra right 37,
go back up 51, go to the right 100, right?
So it actually prints it out in order.
There's a very strict
ordering to this tree and
in order traversal produces
an in order array.
It's cool property, right?
So, that's why you put this up more in
the strict ordering phase than the weak
ordering phase or strong ordering,
might be a better term than strict.